add ledger wallet guides (#1812)
helium/docs: docs/wallets/ledger-wallet.mdx

* Helium Ledger Nano X Device
* [Ledger Live Application](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live)
* Helium Mobile Wallet app

Nano X users need to have Bluetooth connectivity to use the app.

### Step 2: Install the Solana app on your Ledger device

:::important

Helium migration to Solana

Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. If you used the Helium Ledger app before the migration date, please refer to [this guide](https://docs.helium.com/solana/migration/ledger/) to complete your migration.

:::

To do this, first open "Ledger Live." Then connect your Ledger device to "My Ledger" to ensure that your device is running the latest firmware version. If you can not find "Solana", you may need to update your Ledger Live. Check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, and select About and Version.

<figure className="screensnippet-wrapper">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl('/img/wallets/ledger/install-app.png')}
    className="add-shadow add-shadow-margin add-border-radius"
    style={{ maxHeight: 'initial', maxWidth: '720px' }}
  />

>   <figcaption>Add Solana App".</figcaption>

Reviewer: All of the captions seem to have the `"`. Should be removed.

Author: Resolved now, please review again

- Viewing account address(es) and balances
- Transferring tokens
- Signing transactions
- Hotspot management actions such as onboarding or asserting location

## How To Access Ledger Account in Helium Mobile Wallet

So let's take a look at how to access your Ledger account via the Helium Mobile Wallet app.

### Step 1: Preparation
Before you begin, there are prerequsites and software you need to install which includes:

* Helium Ledger Nano X Device
* [Ledger Live Application](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live)
* Helium Mobile Wallet app

> Nano X users need to have Bluetooth connectivity to manage HNT using the app.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Nano X users need to have Bluetooth connectivity to use the app.
```

### Step 2: Install the Solana app on your Ledger device

:::important

Helium migration to Solana

> Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. If you used Helium Ledger app before the migration date, please refer to [this guide](https://docs.helium.com/solana/migration/ledger/) to complete your migration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. If you used the Helium Ledger app before the migration date, please refer to [this guide](https://docs.helium.com/solana/migration/ledger/) to complete your migration.
```

:::

> To do this, first open "Ledger Live". Then connect your Ledger device to "My Ledger" to ensure that your device is running the latest firmware version. If you can not find "Solana", you may need to update your Ledger Live. So check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, and select About and Version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do this, first open "Ledger Live." Then connect your Ledger device to "My Ledger" to ensure that your device is running the latest firmware version. If you can not find "Solana", you may need to update your Ledger Live. Check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, and select About and Version.
```

</figure>
<br />

A request for "Bluetooth Pairing with code" will show in your wallet and you can click "Pair" to proceed. Your Ledger device should display "Confirm Pairing" and also show the pairing code. Press both buttons simultaneously to confirm the address. And that's it, your account is connected and you're good to go.

<figure className="screensnippet-wrapper">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl('/img/wallets/ledger/select-address.png')}
    className="add-shadow add-shadow-margin add-border-radius"
    style={{ maxHeight: 'initial', maxWidth: '360px' }}
  />
  <figcaption>Import Wallet".</figcaption>
</figure>
<br />

If you have other accounts you want to import, you can continue this process.

And now that's it you have imported your accounts from Ledger. 

<figure className="screensnippet-wrapper">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl('/img/wallets/ledger/pair-success.png')}
    className="add-shadow add-shadow-margin add-border-radius"
    style={{ maxHeight: 'initial', maxWidth: '360px' }}
  />
  <figcaption>View Wallet".</figcaption>
</figure>
<br />

You can click "View Account" to see the details. 

### Step 5: Receive HNT coins into your Ledger Helium account

> Now that you're done with the set-up process, you can send or receive HNT coins into your Ledger account. There's a "Send" or "Request" icon in the app. You can select Request and ensure your correct Ledger account appears.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you're done with the set-up process, you can manage tokens or hotspots using your Ledger account. There's a "Send" or "Request" icon in the app. You can select Request and ensure your correct Ledger public key appears.
```

> After selecting Request, a QR code will pop up. You will use this code to send HNT coins to your account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After selecting Request, a QR code will pop up. You can use this code to send tokens to your account.
```

## How To Access Ledger Account in CLI

With the following steps, you will be able to set up a Ledger Wallet for the Helium blockchain on any laptop or desktop computer of your choice.

### Step 1: Get the Requirements Ready
Before you begin, there are prerequsites and software you need to install which includes:

* Helium Ledger Nano X or Ledger Nano S Device
* [Ledger Live Application](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live)
* Personal Computer (Mac OS/Windows OS/Linux OS)

If an update notification doesn't appear, your Ledger Live app and device are likely running on the latest software and you should have no issues.

You have to ensure your Ledger Live app and Ledger device are running on the latest firmware. If your Ledger Live is out of date, you will likely see update notifications appear at the top of the window. Otherwise, you can manually check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, select About and Version. You will find the "update" button.

### Step 2: Install the Solana app on your Ledger device

:::important

Helium migration to Solana

> Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. After the migration the Helium blockchain is officially halted. Learn more

Reviewer 2: Make this match the above

Author: Updated, please review again

- Transferring tokens
- Signing transactions

> :::important

Reviewer 2: This is no longer true, you should be able to use a ledger to onboard/assert location in the wallet app

Author: Thanks for pointing out, already resolved!

At this time, Hotspot management actions such as onboarding or asserting location are not supported.

:::

## How To Access Ledger Account in Helium Mobile Wallet

So let's take a look at how to access your Ledger account via the Helium Mobile Wallet app.

### Step 1: Preparation
Before you begin, there are prerequsites and software you need to install which includes:

* Helium Ledger Nano X Device
* [Ledger Live Application](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live)
* Helium Mobile Wallet app

Nano X users need to have Bluetooth connectivity to manage HNT using the app.

### Step 2: Install the Solana app on your Ledger device

:::important

Helium migration to Solana

> Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. After the migration the Helium blockchain is officially halted. Learn more

Reviewer 2: there's no link here on learn more.

Also why do we need to say in this doc that the blockchain is halted?

Author: I deleted this part.

> As a result, the Helium app was removed from Ledger Live. After the migration, users should be able to manage their HNT tokens with the Solana app. 

Reviewer 2: Should include a link to the ledger migration guide for people who had ledgers before April 18th, 2023

Author: Thanks for pointing out, already added the link!

:::

> To do this, first open "Ledger Live" and select "Settings" > Experimental features and activate "Developer mode". Then connect your Ledger device to "My Ledger" to ensure that your device is running the latest firmware version. If you can not find "Solana", you may need to update your Ledger Live. So check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, and select About and Version.

Reviewer 2: You shouldn't need to enable Developer Mode to add the solana app

<figure className="screensnippet-wrapper">
  <img
    src={useBaseUrl('/img/wallets/ledger/install-app.png')}
    className="add-shadow add-shadow-margin add-border-radius"
    style={{ maxHeight: 'initial', maxWidth: '720px' }}
  />
  <figcaption>Add Solana App".</figcaption>
</figure>
<br />

Once you have done this, click on "My Ledger" and install the "Solana" app to your Ledger device.

You have to ensure your Ledger Live app and Ledger device are running on the latest firmware. If your Ledger Live is out of date, you will likely see update notifications appear at the top of the window. Otherwise, you can manually check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, select About and Version. You will find the "update" button.

> ### Step 3: Pair your Ledger with the Helium Mobile Wallet app (Nano X only)

Reviewer 2: It's worth mentioning that they will need to enable blind signing on the ledger

Author: Thanks for pointing out, add an extra step for blind signing!

> Since this process requires Bluetooth connectivity, go to the "Control Center" of your Nano X device and ensure that the Bluetooth is on. If you have any issues owith Bluetooth, watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHUkE1Gw0hs) for possible solutions. Then use the buttons on your Ledger device to open the Solana app. Now, open the Helium Mobile Wallet app on your phone and select "Add New Wallet".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since this process requires Bluetooth connectivity, go to the "Control Center" of your Nano X device and ensure that the Bluetooth is on. If you have any issues with Bluetooth, watch [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHUkE1Gw0hs) for possible solutions. Then use the buttons on your Ledger device to open the Solana app. Now, open the Helium Mobile Wallet app on your phone and select "Add New Wallet".
```

* Helium Ledger Nano X or Ledger Nano S Device
* [Ledger Live Application](https://www.ledger.com/ledger-live)
* Personal Computer (Mac OS/Windows OS/Linux OS)

If an update notification doesn't appear, your Ledger Live app and device are likely running on the latest software and you should have no issues.

You have to ensure your Ledger Live app and Ledger device are running on the latest firmware. If your Ledger Live is out of date, you will likely see update notifications appear at the top of the window. Otherwise, you can manually check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, select About and Version. You will find the "update" button.

### Step 2: Install the Solana app on your Ledger device

:::important

Helium migration to Solana

Helium blockchain migrated to Solana blockchain. The migration to Solana took place on April 18, 2023, beginning at 9am PST. After the migration the Helium blockchain is officially halted. Learn more

As a result, the Helium app was removed from Ledger Live. After the migration, users should be able to manage their HNT tokens with the Solana app. 

:::

> To do this, first open "Ledger Live" and select "Settings" > Experimental features and activate "Developer mode". Then connect your Ledger device to "My Ledger" to ensure that your device is running the latest firmware version. If you can not find "Solana", you may need to update your Ledger Live. So check your version of Ledger Live by navigating to Settings, and select About and Version.

Reviewer 2: see above

Author: reolved

```
solana-keygen pubkey usb://ledger
solana-keygen pubkey usb://ledger?key=0
solana-keygen pubkey usb://ledger?key=1
```

### Step 5: Send HNT from Ledger

To transfer tokens from an address associated with your Ledger Hardware wallet, you'll need to sign the transaction using the device, utilizing the same keypair URL that was used to generate the address. Ensure your Nano is connected, unlocked using your PIN, that Ledger Live is closed, and that the Solana App is activated on your device, displaying "Application is Ready."

The `spl-token transfer` command allows you to define the recipient address, the amount of tokens to send, and includes the `--keypair` argument to identify the sending keypair. This keypair will sign off on the transaction, resulting in a deduction from the balance of the specified address.

The mint address for HNT is `hntyVP6YFm1Hg25TN9WGLqM12b8TQmcknKrdu1oxWux` on the Solana blockchain.

```
~$ spl-token transfer hntyVP6YFm1Hg25TN9WGLqM12b8TQmcknKrdu1oxWux <AMOUNT> <RECEIVER> --keypair usb://ledger?key=1

> ```

Reviewer 2: There should be more docs for https://github.com/helium/helium-wallet-rs

Reviewer 2: Although I'm not sure, @madninja does that currently support ledger?

Author: @ChewingGlass  Hello! I checked the wallet binary and it seems not support Ledger now.
